The beginning of the pause will be 7 a.m.
Friday, the 24th of November,
and it will last of course,
as agreed for four days.
And the first batch of civilians
to be released from
Gaza will be around 4 p.m.
of the same day.
They will be 13
and no all the women and children
and those hostages from the same family
will be
put together within the same patch.
CNN's Becky Anderson,
who is in that press
conference, asked multiple
great questions.
Becky,
I think
one of the key ones that you asked was
what happens
if one side breaches of this agreement
what is the result of that?
What stood out to you about the answer
from from the Qatari official
It was an interesting answer, wasn't it?
He said this has to be a cessation
of hostilities completely on both sides.
On the ground and for periods of time
in the air.
And he made it very clear
when asked about drones
in the air,
surveillance drones in the air,
he said specifically
during the period of the hostages
being released,
there would be no surveillance
drones flown.
And we know
because we've had to what we
might call proof of concept
episodes where
we've seen two sets of hostages released.
Of course, the American mother
and her 17 year
old daughter some weeks ago
and then two elderly Israeli citizens.
We know that they were drones in the air
at the time.
And what he suggested is
that can be very confusing.
It can make people feel that
there may be some hostile
activity in the air.
So certainly during the periods of time
when the hostages are being released,
the air the skies will be clear.
The air space over
those hostages will be clear.
Let's just be very specific,
I think, about what we learned today.
This truce starts at 7 a.m.
local Gaza time.
That is 12 a or midnight Eastern time.
And at some point after 4:00
in the afternoon, so 9 a.m.
Eastern Time,
we will see the first 13 hostages.
The names of those 13 hostages
have now been shared with both the
with the Mossad on the Israeli side
and the reciprocal arrangement,
as it were.
The release of Palestinian prisoners
into the Palestinians
hands will happen around the same time,
although
most Italians
are the spokesperson
for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
I couldn't say
exactly how many hostages
would be exchanged.
And then after that, every day
there will be a list
and shared with both sides on those
who will be released
every day at around the same time.
So let's assume for it to be around
4:00 in the afternoon Gaza and time
for four days,
that would take us up to effectively
50 hostages, women and children.
After that,
much of our sorry
reminded us that the proposal the
the deal includes a an opportunity
for Hamas to come good on its agreement.
And for every ten extra hostages release
and the understanding
is that they are holding
as many as 70 to 80.
There will be an extra day of this pause
this cessation
of hostilities
for this brief period of time.
So you know lots of good detail
from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
here today
an important detail
because although we knew
that this deal had been agreed to
there were lots
and lots of things that were that
that was still unclear until we heard
from Majid
al-Ansari at this press conference today.
Kaitlin
Yeah, that was key there, Becky.
A sense of optimism that
from the Qataris at least,
that this could potentially go on
for longer than the planned four days.
We'll see.
Of course,
there is a good reason to be skeptical
here.
We'll see what this looks like
once it's actually put into effect.
Thank you, Becky Anderson.
And Kate,
obviously,
this is the news
that so many of these families
have been waiting for that
at midnight Eastern tonight,
this temporary truce
is going to go into place.
And that based on what we just heard,
if everything goes according to plan.
24 hours from now,
we will see
13 women and civilian hostages
released by Hamas in Gaza Kate.
Caitlin, thank you so much.
And to remind everyone,
of the breaking news,
which is this is a big moment
that we're looking at right now
as as of midnight, the news is midnight
tonight, Eastern Time, 7 p.m.
local the truce sets in. 4 p.m.
local 9 a.m.
eastern around.
The hostages
will be begin to be released.
And is
Israel has confirmed
and then that they have a list
in hand
of the 13 hostages to be first released.
13 women
and children are now just hours away
hopefully
from ending a weeks long nightmare.
Joining us now on this news.
Finally some more detail
that we have gotten about
what this exchange will look like
is for me.
The former deputy
director of national intelligence,
Beth Sanner.
CNN global affairs analyst Kim Dozier.
And retired Army Brigadier General
Mark Kimmitt.
Thank you guys for being here.
Beth, what's your reaction
to all of what
we just heard laid out
by Qatari officials
of what this process
is going to look like now?
Well, I guess
we'll skip ahead a little bit,
because I think that, you know,
tomorrow looks very good, but as each day
progresses, it gets harder
and more challenging.
And it's clear from the way
the Qataris laid out this plan
that their goal is very, very divergent
from where the Israeli goal
is in the end.
The Qataris want to extend this
indefinitely and lead
this lead to a peace agreement
or full cease fire.
And Israel
is absolutely in a different place.
And so I think that,
you know, this does
become much, much more complicated
as it goes by.
And it's an excellent point,
because we just heard
from the prime
minister himself
definitively saying the war continues
last night,
the mission remains to demolish Hamas.
And general
in terms
of what this truce means
and how it holds.
So midnight tonight,
Eastern is when the truce is to set in.
And our Becky Anderson, our colleague
over there, she asked Qatar officials
what would constitute
a breach of this agreement,
a break in that truce by either side.
And the visual
definitely did not answer the question.
What do you think would.
Is it clear
what would constitute a breach?
And what happens if if they do
Well, I think
what would
happen is
there would be some undisciplined
fire from
perhaps a individual Hamas soldier
that may or may not agree with
what is what what is going on.
He may be trying to lure
the IDF into firing back.
That happens
so often
in these tentative
cease fires around the world.
I think that that would not return
the situation to a full combat operation.
But as they said in the press conference,
they would do everything
they could to contain
that type of violation.
I think at this point,
both sides want this
this pause to stay in place
during the duration
of the hostage exchange
and what the pause does.
But does it
pause B, get
a pause is kind of a question,
Kim, because
a former head of Mossad told me
last night that it will be for the IDF
much harder
to start the fighting
in the military operation
back up once this truce sets in for one,
because he believed
the mounting international pressure
that would start building
to at least bring about a slowdown.
The IDF and the prime minister
have assured, though,
that they are going to return
to operations.
The mission continues
What do you think of these
Well, Israel has said that
this agreement expires after ten days.
And the White House really
hoping that if the first four days
go well,
each of those additional days could
lead to more hostage
exchanges, possibly up to ten days.
But turning the war back on
is going to be really hard
for the Israeli government
because there will be pressure
from the hostage families
to keep this going
to keep the exchanges going,
because the Hamas militants,
they're not going anywhere.
They're stuck inside Gaza.
So what's the difference
between waiting
another ten
or 20 days to prosecute the war
versus earlier
And Beth Netanyahu,
the role of the Red Cross was brought up
in this press conference
with Qatari officials and
and he essentially said
that the Red Cross has a role in
accepting the hostages
and kind of facilitating that.
But there is also
then Netanyahu saying yesterday
that the Red Cross,
he said
the expectation is
will be allowed to visit
the hostages
who remain behind, remain in Gaza
and even offer
medical support to those hostages.
But the Red Cross,
you know, the confusion sets in
because the Red Cross says this morning
they aren't aware
of that agreement
at all, though, ready to help in any way.
Do you see Hamas
letting the Red Cross in?
What do you see as the role here?
Well,
Hamas will do what
it sees in its interests and how it views
that in terms of its broader
interests of extending the cease
fire indefinitely,
giving itself time to regroup,
trying to present itself as the
the good guys here, you know,
which is very hard for us to see. Right.
But I think when you are looking at it
from the Arab world, it looks different.
So, yeah,
I can see it
actually happening in a way
that Hamas tries
to twist it
into something positive for them
in the end.
You know,
getting in
there is absolutely the right thing
and the good thing to do. So we'll see.
Have to see how this goes.